three friends making a web series about
their town discover that their neighbors
are being bitten by strange creatures
and then beginning to act very weird
they decide to investigate further only
to uncover something more shocking and
deadly than they could ever have
imagined welcome to movie splain in
today's video we'll be recapping a
horror film called assimilate enjoy the
video
we see some bugs crawling on tree leaves
at night our attention is shifted to a
house nearby a teen named hannah is
really worried her mom hasn't yet come
home and it's almost midnight she tries
calling and leaving voicemails with no
response she is even more concerned
about a bite she has on her left arm
that she can't explain she is startled
by a huge thudding sound coming from the
front of her house she looks out the
window and sees that an intruder has
entered the yard and is running towards
the front door she manages to shut and
lock the door before the woman can get
in this doesn't stop the intruder it
only manages to infuriate her she bangs
on the door extremely hard while
screaming at the top of her lungs after
she fails to get it open she runs around
the yard in a frenzy looking for a way
in hannah attempts to call 9-1-1 but is
halted by the chilling reminder that she
left the back door open she gets to the
door and gets it closed and locked in
time the woman then repeatedly bangs on
the door until the glass shatters and
propels at hannah forcing her to the
ground
best friends zack henderson and randy
foster record a video tour of their town
moulton missouri which they upload to
their channel called the zack and randy
show on a video sharing site called vid2
they plan to go under the radar and
record their day-to-day experiences
using portable bluetooth cameras that
they will each wear while recording they
are interrupted by the cheerful pastor
greg who invites them to partake in a
singing event for teens
at the church they politely decline they
meet one of the neighbors mrs bissett
outside her house she points out that
dozens of unrecognizable insects that
showed up a week prior
have been crawling on all the vegetation
by her house they are interrupted by a
little boy's screams his mom is pulling
him across the road by his hand while he
shouts you're not my mom
the boys greet her but she doesn't reply
seemingly upset at her son in a view
from above we are zoomed in to witness
microscopic organisms falling from the
sky onto the town zack and randy also
record zak's crush kayla shepard playing
soccer at their high school she spots
their cameras and inquires about them
they tell her that they've began a web
series of moulton kayla introduces her
father larry mother beth
and little brother joey to the boys and
their potential audience her mom and dad
are a really funny and chilled out
couple that evening the boys are having
dinner with zach's parents zach's dad is
a double amputee restricted to a
wheelchair though it's never mentioned
what happened to him after dinner they
go for a walk on the soccer field when
they hear someone let out a blood
curdling scream they are drawn to mrs
bissett's house zach and randy turn on
their cameras and enter the house to
find mrs bissett hiding in her closet
with a bloody bite on her leg a small
creature breaks through the wall and
scurries outside they follow the
creature through the woods they hide
behind a tree when they realize there's
a shady man standing nearby the man then
collects the creature in a container his
behavior and mannerisms are very odd
almost as if he's a robot rather than a
person he gets into a car which then
drives off the boys managed to catch a
glimpse of the man's face they notice
that it's pastor greg they come back to
mrs bissett's house to check up on her
they see from outside her window that
she is distressed and crying while on
the phone so they decide to leave zach
and randy show their strange video to
deputy josh haywood josh dismisses the
footage as a prank he accuses them of
photoshopping the creature into the
video for their web series he also says
that mrs bissett never called the police
about the incident zach and randy decide
to confront pastor greg they go to
church and notice that it's empty they
walk down a flight of stairs into a dull
hallway they call out for pastor greg
and he emerges from a room in which he
was conducting a meeting with some
town's people he acts very strange still
robotic almost as if he's just a shell
of his former self the other people in
the room act the same way pastor greg
denies being the person in the video and
then bizarrely insults both boys
families
belittling their parents by telling them
all the sins their parents confess to
him the sheriff then emerges from the
room and frightens the boys away zach
and randy return to mrs bissett also
behaving robotically mrs bissett denies
being bitten by showing that her leg is
fine they claim that they have footage
but she dismisses the fact that it's her
in the video she then strangely invites
them into her bedroom they suddenly hear
a loud noise coming from the room it
sounds as if someone is inside
struggling they quickly leave they
decide to spy on her by looking through
the bedroom window they notice that a
man is tied to her bed and is
unconscious she comes into the room and
stares at him another robotic person
unseen by them jumps at the window
scaring them away they show their
footage to zach's parents mr and mrs
henderson discourage their son from
getting involved in their neighbors
business zack and randy analyzed the
footage they identify that from his
tattoo the man that was on mrs
bessette's bed is actually a boy named
dylan the captain of the high school
football team but even stranger the
person that jumped at them from behind
the window is also dylan kayla then
comes to zack and randy to tell them her
father larry is acting strangely it's
like he's been replaced by someone
that's acting as him only and his
behavior is scaring her zach and randy
tell kayla about the odd behavior they
have witnessed throughout town kayla
asks for help getting her brother joey
and her mom away from larry the three
teens see additional residents behaving
weirdly while walking to kayla's house
they arrive at kayla's house and find
her dad acting very robotic kayla and
randy distract larry while zach searches
for kayla's mother beth zack goes to the
attic and finds a trail of dirt leading
to a large pot he also finds joey who is
hiding from his dad zach tells joey to
go to his room and hide kayla's dad then
grows impatient after zach doesn't
return he goes upstairs to find him zach
runs to the bathroom to make it look as
though he was only using the toilet he
tries to wash the dirt off his hands and
wipes it off with a towel he goes to
hide the towel in a basket but when he
opens it he finds kayla's mother dead
inside zach regains his composure and
exits the bathroom after zach randy and
kayla leave the house he shows kayla the
footage she wants to go back to get her
brother but they decide the best plan of
action is to take the new footage to
deputy holloway josh goes to the
shepherd house to investigate but
reverts to thinking zach and randy are
creating a hoax when kayla's mother
appears
fine and unharmed the three teens
realize the escalating danger when they
see pastor greg in the house alongside
joey kayla notices that her mother is
acting strangely and accuses her of
being an imposter she leaves with the
boys thinking they can attract outside
help zach randy and kayla try putting
their footage online to expose the clone
conspiracy however they find that their
cellular signals are being jammed the
three teens go to zack's parents for
help before they reach the house they
hear his dad working in the barn zach
and randy go to the barn and tell kayla
to go to the house and look for his mom
zach's dad is also acting strangely he
also emerges to reveal that he now has
both his legs and can walk he walks over
to the barn entrance and joins a group
of robotic people like himself
along with pastor greg the clones trap
zack and randy inside with two creatures
one of the creatures bites randy they
find a pod with something moving inside
of it outburst zach's mother she lifts
her head for a moment almost sensing or
searching for something she then yells
and runs into the darkness before
arriving at zack's real mother and grabs
her head zach tries to get the clone off
his mother but it is too strong it
pushes him away and proceeds to drains
the life out of his mom killing her it
then speaks to zack trying to convince
him that it's his real mother zach kills
the clone by impaling it with a shovel
kayla opens the back entrance and
rescues the boys before the clones get
to them zack randy and kaler run away
and go to deputy josh once more this
time at his trailer in the woods josh
lets them in and shows the teens he
killed his clone after it tried to
attack him josh now believes the danger
zach and randy tried warning him about
the group concludes that the creatures
bite humans to acquire a genetic pattern
and incubate a clone the doubles then
kill the original humans to acquire
their memories and identities randy's
clone comes to josh's trailer trying to
kill randy a horde of clones overturns
the trailer with everyone inside the
horde pulls josh away randy runs into
the woods to draw the doubles to him so
zack and kayla can escape zach and kayla
walk robotically to blend in with the
clones as they make their way to kayla's
mother's store in town they see the
clones surrounding a fire in which all
the corpses are being burnt while zack
retrieves a van key kayla becomes
distracted when she sees her brother
joey being brought to a nearby fire
station along with the rest of moulton's
children kayla infiltrates a setup where
replaced parents have creatures bite
their children for cloning kayla finds
her brother being led by a clone of one
of her schoolmates the clone observes
her when she looks at her brother and
sees him crying she tries to hold back
her emotions but lets out a tear the
clone realizes she's human and signals
the other clones who then capture kayla
in the commotion she tells joey to run
away and go wait for her at their family
cabin in the woods joey flees while the
other clones gather around kayla the
clones hold kayla down and set one the
creatures onto her zach comes to kayla's
rescue in the van after driving away
zach notices kayla was bitten he stops
the van once they are far from the
clones and tries to comfort her while
zack is telling her of the plan to
upload the footage at the cable network
station to the rest of the world
thousands of tiny bugs enter the van and
converge transferring into one of the
creatures it jumps at zack and bites him
before escaping kayla and then zach run
after it but it's too late it escapes
with his dna the sheriff's clone then
arrives at the van and signals the rest
of the clones they realize they will
have to walk through the bushes to the
station along the way zack encounters
randy's double near a pond while kayla
quickly hides in the bushes he tries to
convince zach that it's really him by
accounting different memories of when
they were children and explored the area
zack can easily make out that he is out
of tune and missing the human emotional
component yet it still saddens him the
thought of what he is about to do kayla
emerges and hits the clone on the back
of the head with a rock the pair then
try to drown the clone so that it can't
signal the others but it still manages
to before it finally drowns zach and
kayla make it to the cable station where
they encounter zak's double before it
can kill zach kayla saves him and jams
the door they get to the server room and
shut the door before uploading all of
their footage to the servers they
successfully upload the videos and then
kiss zach and kayla's clones come
banging on the door seeing that the room
contains a carbon dioxide extinguisher
system zach comes up with a plan he
tells kayla to find the part of the
video where she is on screen while he
finds footage of himself on the adjacent
monitor they play the footage and hold
their breaths while zack sets off the
extinguisher he opens the door and then
hides before the clones get in the
clones look around the room and then go
to the monitors touching on the screens
trying to absorb their memories zach and
kayla escape while their doppelgangers
are distracted the clones then pass out
and die after a while
zach and kayla blend in with the crowd
before escaping into the woods they go
to the cabin and reunite with joey
however they see on tv that the clones
have infiltrated every single city and
have taken over the world zach and kaler
realized their town was actually the
last to be assimilated not the first
scattered survivors begin replying to
their online video to organize a
resistance
you